Add a new section on how to collect any log from CloudWatch using Firehose (#3887)
elastic/observability-docs: docs/en/observability/cloud-monitoring/aws/monitor-aws-cloudwatch-firehose.asciidoc

- Create a delivery stream in Amazon Data Firehose
- Set up a subscription filter to forward the logs using the Firehose stream
- Visualize your logs in {kib}

[discrete]
[[firehose-cloudwatch-prerequisites]]
== Before you begin

We assume that you already have:

- An AWS account with permissions to pull the necessary data from AWS.
- A deployment using our hosted {ess} on {ess-trial}[{ecloud}]. The deployment includes an {es} cluster for storing and searching your data, and {kib} for visualizing and managing your data. AWS Data Firehose works with Elastic Stack version 7.17 or greater, running on Elastic Cloud only.

IMPORTANT: AWS PrivateLink is not supported. Make sure the deployment is on AWS, because the Amazon Data Firehose delivery stream connects specifically to an endpoint that needs to be on AWS.

[discrete]
[[firehose-cloudwatch-step-one]]
== Step 1: Install AWS integration in {kib}

. In {kib}, navigate to *Management* > *Integrations* and browse the catalog to find the AWS integration.

. Navigate to the *Settings* tab and click *Install AWS assets*.

[discrete]
[[firehose-cloudwatch-step-two]]
== Step 2: Select a CloudWatch log group to monitor 

> In this tutorial, we will collect application logs from an AWS Lambda-based app and forward them to Elastic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you collect application logs from an AWS Lambda-based app and forward them to Elastic.
```
IMO it's better to address the user directly. I think that's Elastic style, too. Since users are already knee deep in the tutorial, there's no need to say "will".

> If you already have a Lambda function, or any other service or application that logs on a CloudWatch log group, you can skip this section. Take note of the log group from which you want to collect log events and move to the next section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you already have a Lambda function, or any other service or application that sends logs to a CloudWatch log group, you can skip this section. Take note of the log group from which you want to collect log events and move to the next section.
```
To be consistent with AWS terminology/docs.

Otherwise, let's create a lambda function.

[discrete]
[[firehose-cloudwatch-step-two-overview]]
=== Overview

> In this tutorial, we will write a simple AWS Lambda-based app, collect its application logs, and forward them to Elastic. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you write a simple AWS Lambda-based app, collect its application logs, and forward them to Elastic. 
```

> Like many other services and platforms in AWS, Lambda functions natively log directly to CloudWatch out of the box. Lambda functions are a great tool for experimenting on AWS.

Reviewer: I don't think this sentence is relevant or necessary. I would remove it: "Lambda functions are a great tool for experimenting on AWS."

[discrete]
[[firehose-cloudwatch-step-two-create-lambda]]
=== Create a Lambda function

1. Visit the AWS web console and open the AWS Lambda page.

> 2. Click on **Create function** and select the option to create a function from scratch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click **Create function** and select the option to create a function from scratch.
```

1. Visit the AWS web console and open the AWS Lambda page.
2. Click **Create function** and select the option to create a function from scratch.

> 3. Select a **Function name**

Reviewer 2: For consistency with other steps
```suggestion
3. Select a **Function name**.
```

> 6. Confirm and create the Lambda function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Confirm and create the Lambda function.
```

> When AWS completes the creation of the function, visit the **Code source** section and paste the following Python code as function source code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When AWS finishes creating the function, visit the **Code source** section and paste the following Python code as function source code:
```

[source,python]
----
import json

def lambda_handler(event, context):
    print("Received event: " + json.dumps(event))
----

[IMPORTANT]
=====

> Click on **Deploy** to deploy the changes to the source code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click **Deploy** to deploy the changes to the source code.
```

=====

[discrete]
[[firehose-cloudwatch-step-two-genereate-sample-logs]]
=== Generate some sample logs

> With the function ready to go, we can invoke it a few times to generate sample logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the function ready to go, you can invoke it a few times to generate sample logs.
```

On the function page,

> - Select **Test**
> - Select the option to create a new test event
> - Name the test event and **Save** the changes.
> - Click on the **Test** button to execute the function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select **Test**.
. Select the option to create a new test event.
. Name the test event and **Save** the changes.
. Click the **Test** button to execute the function.
```
Tasks should be numbered.

Visit the function's log group. Usually, the AWS console offers a handy link to jump straight to the log group it created for this function's logs.

You should see something similar:

image::firehose-cloudwatch-sample-logs.png[CloudWatch log group with sample logs]

> Take note of the log group name for this Lambda function, and move to the next section.

Reviewer: IMO it's rarely necessary to tell users to move to the next section unless there is some reason they might not realize they need to perform additional steps. I would remove the extra words here and in other places (unless for some reason users are likely to be confused).

Take note of the log group name for this Lambda function, as you will need it in the next steps.

[discrete]
[[firehose-cloudwatch-step-three]]
== Step 3: Create a stream in Amazon Data Firehose

image::firehose-cloudwatch-firehose-stream.png[Amazon Firehose Stream]

. Go to the https://console.aws.amazon.com/[AWS console] and navigate to Amazon Data Firehose.  

. Click *Create Firehose stream* and choose the source and destination of your Firehose stream. Unless you are streaming data from Kinesis Data Streams, set source to `Direct PUT` and destination to `Elastic`. 

. Provide a meaningful *Firehose stream name* that will allow you to identify this delivery stream later. 

NOTE: For advanced use cases, source records can be transformed by invoking a custom Lambda function. When using Elastic integrations, this should not be required.

> Set the **Parameters** in the **Destination settings** section.
> 
> [discrete]
> [[firehose-cloudwatch-step-three-desination-settings-parameters]]
> === Parameters
> 
> Use the following parameters:

Reviewer 2: It feels like this line should be in the next section?

```suggestion
[discrete]
[[firehose-cloudwatch-step-three-desination-settings-parameters]]
=== Parameters

Set the **Parameters** in the **Destination settings** section.
Use the following parameters:
```

|Name
|Value

| `es_datastream_name`
| `logs-aws.generic-default`

|===

[discrete]
[[firehose-cloudwatch-step-four]]

> == Step 4: Set up a subscription filter to send Lambda function log events to a Firehose stream

Reviewer: Can you shorten this title and move some of the detail to the into paragraph? Remember these titles appear in the mini nav where long titles are harder to read. Maybe say "Step 4: Send Lambda function log events to a Firehose stream"? Then you could introduce the concept of a subscription filter immediately after the title so that the title doesn't have to do all the heavy lifting.

The Firehose stream is ready to send logs to our Elastic Cloud deployment.

Next steps:

- Open the log group with the Lambda function log events

> - Create a subscription filter for Amazon Data Firehose 

Reviewer: Not sure why this info is necessary since these steps appear immediately after this section. Maybe remove it? Or if you think it's necessary, make these links active.

[discrete]
[[firehose-cloudwatch-step-four-log-group]]

> === Open the log group with the Lambda function log events

Reviewer: All of the sub-sections here make this section a bit choppy.  The task flow gets lost and there is unnecessary repetition, which IMO makes the info harder to scan and makes the procedure look more complicated. Would it make sense to have a list with sub-steps here instead of all the sub-sections? If the procedure gets too long, is it possible to break into more than one high-level, user goal oriented task?

> Please open the log group where the Lambda service is sending the events. We must forward these events to an Elastic stack using the Firehose delivery stream.

Reviewer: I'm suggesting "can" instead of "must" here because it feels like we're saying that firehose is the only way to get the logs into Elastic.
```suggestion
Open the log group where the Lambda service is sending the events. You can forward these events to an Elastic stack through the Firehose delivery stream.
```

> The CloudWatch log group offers a https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/logs/Subscriptions.html[subscription filter]. The subscription filter allows users to pick log events from the log group and forward them to other services, such as an Amazon Kinesis stream, an Amazon Data Firehose stream, or AWS Lambda.

Reviewer: This info seems out of place. I would expect the subscription filter to be described earlier where we introduce the main task.

The https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/logs/Subscriptions.html[subscription filter] allows users to pick log events from the log group and forward them to other services, such as an Amazon Kinesis stream, an Amazon Data Firehose stream, or AWS Lambda.

On the log group page, select *Subscription filters* and click the *Create Amazon Data Firehose subscription filter* button.

Here are the steps to follow:

[discrete]
[[firehose-cloudwatch-step-four-subscription-filter-destination]]

> ==== Choose destination

Reviewer 2: These headings don't display correctly but that's a CSS bug. We have a PR open in elastic/docs to fix this.

[discrete]
[[firehose-cloudwatch-step-four-subscription-filter-destination]]
==== Choose destination

> Please select the Firehose stream we create in the previous step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select the Firehose stream you created in the previous step.
```

[discrete]
[[firehose-cloudwatch-step-four-subscription-filter-permission]]
==== Grant permission

> Grant the CloudWatch service to send log events to the stream in Firehose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Grant the CloudWatch service permission to send log events to the stream in Firehose:
```

> This step consists of two parts::

Reviewer: It's generally not a good idea to introduce lists by stating the number of items in the list. There's a good chance someone will update the list without updating the intro sentence. :-)  Let's just remove this sentence because it doesn't add any info for the user.
```suggestion
```

> 1. Create a new role with a trust policy that allows CloudWatch service to assume the role.
> 2. Assign a policy to the role that permits "putting records" into a Firehose  stream.

Reviewer: I don't think it hurts, but it's probably better to be consistent with the asciidoc list style for steps. Leading periods (.) are better because it means you don't have to manage the numbering manually.
```suggestion
. Create a new role with a trust policy that allows CloudWatch service to assume the role.
. Assign a policy to the role that permits "putting records" into a Firehose  stream.
```

                }
            }
        }
    ]
}
----

[discrete]
[[firehose-cloudwatch-step-four-subscription-filter-permission-policy]]
===== Assign a policy to the IAM role

Using the the following JSON, create a new IAM policy and assign it to the role:

[source,json]
----
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Action": "firehose:PutRecord",
            "Resource": "arn:aws:firehose:<REGION>:<ACCOUNT_ID>:deliverystream/<YOUR_FIREHOSE_STREAM>"
        }
    ]
}
----

When the new role is ready, you can select it in the subscription filter.

[discrete]
[[firehose-cloudwatch-step-four-subscription-filter-log-format]]
==== Configure log format and filters

Select the "Other" in the **Log format** option.

[discrete]
[[firehose-cloudwatch-step-four-subscription-filter-log-format-more]]
===== More on log format and filters

You can use the *Subscription filter pattern* in the subscription filter to forward only the log events that match the pattern. You can test filter patterns using *Test pattern* in the AWS console.

[discrete]
[[firehose-cloudwatch-step-four-subscription-additional-logs]]

> ==== Generate additional logs

Reviewer: Is this for testing purposes? Might be good to add some "why" info here to provide more context.

> Open the AWS Lambda page again, select the function we created, and execute it a few times to generate new log events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open the AWS Lambda page again, select the function you created, and execute it a few times to generate new log events.
```

[discrete]
[[firehose-cloudwatch-step-verify]]
=== Verify if there are destination errors

Check if there are destination error logs.

> On the AWS console, visit your Firehose stream and check for entries in the "Destination error logs" section.

Reviewer: I'm not looking at the UI, but if this is a labelled section in the UI, you probably want bold instead of quotes here.
```suggestion
On the AWS console, visit your Firehose stream and check for entries in the *Destination error logs* section.
```

> If everything is running smoothly, this list will be empty. If there's an error, you can check the details. Here is a delivery stream that fails to send records to the Elastic stack due to bad authentication settings:

Reviewer 2: This is a good example to include 👍

If everything is running smoothly, this list will be empty. If there's an error, you can check the details. Here is a delivery stream that fails to send records to the Elastic stack due to bad authentication settings:

image::firehose-cloudwatch-destination-errors.png[Firehose destination errors]

The Firehose delivery stream reports:

> 1. The number of failed deliveries. 
> 2. The failure detail. 

Reviewer: Numbered lists should be reserved for a series of steps.
```suggestion
* The number of failed deliveries. 
* The failure detail. 
```

[discrete]
[[firehose-cloudwatch-step-five]]
== Step 5: Visualize your logs in {kib}

With the logs streaming to the Elastic stack, you can now visualize them in {kib}.

> In {kib}, navigate to the *Discover* page and select the index pattern that matches the Firehose stream name. Here is a sample of logs from the Lambda function we forwarded to the `logs-aws.generic-default` data stream:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In {kib}, navigate to the *Discover* page and select the index pattern that matches the Firehose stream name. Here is a sample of logs from the Lambda function you forwarded to the `logs-aws.generic-default` data stream:
```
